HOST: An average college
scene, the present.
Joy, your typical student, an
embodiment of hope, optimism,
and dreams for the future,
embarks on a journey to better
herself and her career.
She navigates classes as
skillfully as a runner,
channeling endurance and mental
strength, but in just a moment
she will be stopped, frozen in
her tracks as she is grasped by
fear because at three o' clock
on this day, Joy will sit down
to start her first essay
with a looming deadline.
Although time will continue on,
Joy will be stuck in the
writing zone.
FUTURE JOY: Hey girl.
Still stuck on that paper, huh?
PRESENT JOY: Excuse me?
How did you know
I was writing a -?
FUTURE JOY: Oh, snap out of it.
We don't have time
for a meltdown.
And before you ask, no.
You're not dreaming.
Yes, I am really you from the
future and watch your drink.
PRESENT JOY: It's
finally happened.
I've snapped.
FUTURE JOY: Well you're
certainly going to if you keep
stressing over writing.
PRESENT JOY: But I.
FUTURE JOY: We always stress
over writing and this paper is
due next week.
PRESENT JOY: I'm going
to fail this class.
FUTURE JOY: No.
We used to stress over writing.
Oh how times have changed.
Relax.
I'm here to walk you through it.
I've been in your
shoes - literally.
This really isn't
that big of a deal.
PRESENT JOY: I don't
even know where to start.
This subject is too
difficult to put into words.
FUTURE JOY: Yeah.
It is certainly a topic you
don't know much about yet but
that has never
stopped you before.
It's not as difficult
or scary as you think.
It only seems scary at first
like many of the things
we've done.
PRESENT JOY: What do you mean?
FUTURE JOY: Do you remember
repelling off of that cliff to
impress Mark?
PRESENT JOY: That
was terrifying.
FUTURE JOY: I'd say.
But we did it anyway.
And writing is not nearly as
risky as dangling over a cliff.
You just need to put
it into perspective.
Think about the first time we
tried to learn how to
ride a bike.
We were terrified of that bike
too because we had to learn the
basics before we were
comfortable enough to try it on
our own.
For us, writing is like
learning to ride a bike.
PRESENT JOY: So how did you -
how do we - I mean, how do I get
started then?
FUTURE JOY: You may not have
training wheels for this but
there are resources
to get you started.
The university has an essay
writing workshop that you can
take for free along with some
other writing resources.
PRESENT JOY: Do you really
think that will help me?
FUTURE JOY: I know it will.
It will teach you the writing
process and then the more papers
you write, the easier
it will become.
Like any challenge, you have to
learn the process first and then
practice, practice, practice.
PRESENT JOY: I guess it never
hurts to give it a try.
Thanks, Joy.
FUTURE JOY: That a girl.
Now take a deep breath
and get clicking.
You've got this.
See you next time.
HOST: In any new struggle, we
find that uncertainties can
hinder our success.
Case and point, Joy has
now discovered something
advantageous to her college
career and her life.
When we stop to consider what
skills we already have and
everything we've achieved, we
are helping ourselves remember
to keep pushing forward.
File this lesson under C for
confidence in the writing zone.